TERM WORK COMPUTER LAB-II(PCS 251)
INSTRUCTION:
1. Use one side ruled bond sheets (Thick) for writing and DMP sheets for printouts.
2. Every solution must contain the following: - Problem statement, Assumptions, Algorithms, 
Flowchart (back of ruled sheet), Printout of program and all possible outputs on separate sheets.
3. Margin should be drawn on flowchart sheet 2cm from right and 1cm from rest of the three sides.
4. Write your name, University roll no. and section with problem statement at the top of every code in 
the comment section.
Q8. Write a Program to input an array and reverse the array elements from particular index to the 
last using dynamic memory allocation.
Q9. Design a structure named "Car" to store details like car ID, model, and rental rate per day. 
Write a C program to input data for n cars, calculate the total rental cost for a specified number of 
days, and display the results.
Q10. Create a structure to specify data on students given below: Roll number, Name, Department, 
Course, Year of joining Assume that there are not more than 450 students in the college.
(a) Write a function to print names of all students who joined in a particular year.
(b) Write a function to print the data of a student whose roll number is given.
Q11. Write a C program to read a text file named as “Data.txt”, Create an another file named as 
“Del.txt” deleting the words “a”, “the”, “an” from the file “Data.txt” and replacing each one of 
them with a blank space in “Del.txt”.
Q12. Write a program to read 20 integers in a file. Separate them into two different files prime.txt 
and nonprime.txt such that all prime numbers are copied in prime.txt and remaining numbers in 
nonprime.txt.
Q13. Write a C program to input a paragraph inside a file “File.txt” and count no. of characters 
and digits in each line and store the count in “Count.txt” file line by line. Example:
Contents of File.txt:
My name is xyz23.
My college1 name is x3x45x. My phone no is 34567856.
Contents of count.txt: 15 2
 23 4
 16 8
Q14. Write a Python program to check whether the input year is leap year or not.
Q15. Write a Python program to accept a coordinate point in an XY coordinate system and 
determine in which quadrant the coordinate point lies.
Test Data : 7 9
Expected Output :
The coordinate point (7,9) lies in the First quadrant.
Q16. Write a Python program to calculate the sum of three given numbers. If the values are equal, 
return three times their sum.
Q17. Write a Python program that computes the greatest common divisor (GCD) and least 
common multiple (LCM) of two positive integers.